CANTERA INPUT FILES: 
-------------------

There are two different types of input files within Cantera: 
  ctml:  This is an xml file layed out in such a way that Cantera can
          interpret the contents.  
  cti:  A human-readable ascii format for information that Cantera
        will read.

Cantera can take its input from both types of files. However, given a
file in cti format, the initial operation that Cantera will perform is
to translate the cti file into a ctml file. The translation is carried
out via a system call to a python interpretor program that actually
carries out the translation. In general, a new ctml file is created by
the translation that is written to the current local directory. The
ctml file is then read back into Cantera as the input.

If Cantera was built without python support, which is the case by
default for CFFC, Cantera will only accept ctml formatted files.
In this case, Cantera will fail when trying to read an .cti input
file and you will have to first preprocess the .cti file into a
.xml file.  This preprosessing can be performed using the provided
Cantera utilities.

Since ctml formatted files do not require Cantera to be built with
the python interpreter, and processing long CTI files like gri30.cti 
can be a little slow, ctml formatted files are preferred.


CONVERTING CTI TO XML FORMAT: 
----------------------------

Cantera comes with a converter utility program 'cti2ctml' that
translates a cti formated file to an xml file.  This utility program
can also be downloaded from the Cantera User's Group web site.

Here's an example of how to use it:

 cti2xml infile.cti

The xml file will be named infile.xml.



CONVERTING CHEMKIN TO CTI FORMAT: 
--------------------------------

Cantera comes with a converter utility program 'ck2cti' which converts
Chemkin 'CK' format into Cantera .cti format.  This program should be
run from the command line first to convert any CK files you plan to
use into Cantera format. This utility program can also be downloaded
from the Cantera User's Group web site.

Here's an example of how to use it:

 ck2cti -i mech.inp -t therm.dat -tr tran.dat -id mymech > mech.cti

where - 'mech.inp' is the Chemkin mechanism input file,
      - 'therm.dat' is the Chemkin thermodynamic database input file,
      - 'tran.dat' is the Chemkin transport database input file,
      - 'mymech' is the reaction mechanism name you wish to provide,
      - 'mech.cti' is the final cti formatted file.


FURHTER INFORMATION:
-------------------
Please see Cantera's documentation for further information as it very
thurough.  It is available online at http://www.cantera.org/.